*** A Tour through the Visualization Zoo ***

The goal of visualization is to aid our understanding of data by leveraging the human visual system’s highly tuned ability to see patterns, spot trends, and identify outliers. Well-designed visual representations can replace cognitive calculations with simple perceptual inferences.

The challenge is that for any given data set the number of visual encodings—and thus the space of possible visualization designs—is extremely large.

all visualizations share a common “DNA”—a set of mappings between data properties and visual attributes such as position, size, shape, and color—and that customized species of visualization might always be constructed by varying these encodings.

TIME-SERIES DATA - STACKED GRAPHS
By stacking area charts on top of each other, we arrive at a visual summation of time-series values—a stacked graph. A stacked graph does not support negative numbers and is meaningless for data that should not be summed (temperatures, for example).
Moreover, stacking may make it difficult to accurately interpret trends that lie atop other curves.

SPLOM (SCATTER PLOT MATRIX)
Multivariate data occurs frequently and is notoriously hard to represent, in part because of the difficulty of mentally picturing data in more than three dimensions. One technique to overcome this problem is to use small multiples of scatter plots showing a set of pairwise relations among variables.

PARALLEL COORDINATES
we repeatedly plot the data on parallel axes and then connect the corresponding points with lines. Reordering dimensions can aid pattern finding, as can interactive querying to filter along one or more dimensions.

HIERARCHIES
While some data is simply a flat collection of numbers, most can be organized into natural hierarchies.
Special visualization techniques exist to leverage hierarchical structure, allowing rapid multiscale inferences: micro-observations of individual elements and macro-observations of large groups.

NODE-LINK DIAGRAMS
the fractal branches of an oak might mirror the nesting of data. If we take a two-dimensional blueprint of a tree, we have a popular choice for visualizing hierarchies: a node-link diagram.

ADJACENCY DIAGRAMS
The adjacency diagram is a space-filling variant of the node-link diagram; rather than drawing a link between parent and child in the hierarchy, nodes are drawn as solid areas (either arcs or bars), and their placement relative to adjacent nodes reveals their position in the hierarchy.
Because the nodes are now space-filling, however, we can use a length encoding for the size of software classes and packages. This reveals an additional dimension that would be difficult to show in a node-link diagram.

NETWORKS
In addition to organization, one aspect of data that we may wish to explore through visualization is relationship. For example, given a social network, who is friends with whom?
Abstractly, a hierarchy is a specialized form of network: each node has exactly one link to its parent, while the root node has no links. Thus node-link diagrams are also used to visualize networks, but the loss of hierarchy means a different algorithm is required to position nodes.

A central challenge in graph visualization is computing an effective layout. Layout techniques typically seek to position closely related nodes (in terms of graph distance, such as the number of links between nodes, or other metrics) close in the drawing; critically, unrelated nodes must also be placed far enough apart to differentiate relationships. Some techniques may seek to optimize other visual features—for example, by minimizing the number of edge crossings.

ARC DIAGRAMS
An arc diagram, shown in figure 5B, uses a one-dimensional layout of nodes, with circular arcs to represent links. Though an arc diagram may not convey the overall structure of the graph as effectively as a two-dimensional layout, with a good ordering of nodes it is easy to identify cliques and bridges.

CONCLUSION
the DNA underlying all visualizations remains the same: the principled mapping of data variables to visual features such as position, size, shape, and color.
